CSC 360 Desgin Document:

1. How many threads are you going to use? Specify the work that you intend each thread to perform.

    - I will use N + 1 threads: one thread per train (N train threads, where N = the number of lines in the input file), plus the main thread, which acts as the dispatcher.
Train thread (one per train) — its lifecycle:

Created by the dispatcher.
Load — usleep(loadtime) to simulate loading goods. This begins immediately on creation; it is not triggered by anyone.
Ready — print "ready to go," add itself to its station queue, and signal the dispatcher that a train is ready.
Wait — pthread_cond_wait until the dispatcher signals this train to cross.
Cross — print "ON the main track," then usleep(crosstime) to simulate the crossing.
Done — print "OFF the main track," and signal the dispatcher that the track is now free.
Exit — the thread returns; main joins it later.

Dispatcher (the main thread):

Reads the input file and creates the N train threads.
Runs the dispatch loop: wait until a train is ready and the track is free → select the next train per the scheduling rules → signal that train to cross → wait for it to finish — repeating until all N trains have crossed.
Then joins all train threads and writes output.txt.



2. Do your threads work independently, or is there an overall "controller" thread?

	here is an overall controller: the dispatcher (the main thread). The train threads run as separate threads, so they're independent in execution, but they are not independent decision-makers. Each train loads on its own, then waits for the dispatcher to tell it when to cross. The dispatcher is the single point that applies all the scheduling rules and decides who goes.




3. How many Mutexs will you use?

I will only need 1 mutex. That mutex will protect the stations queue, as it is
always changing and is a shared part.
Each mutex will gaurd:



the station queue(s)
track_busy (to see if the track is currently occupied)
last_direction (keep track of last direction for anti-starvation)
same_dir_count (the streak counter for starvation)
crossed( # of trains that have crossed the track and has ended)
each train's may_cross flag



4. Will the main thread be idle? If not, what will it be doing?

The main thread will not be idle, after cereating the dispachter thread, the
main thread will become the dispacther.



5. How are you going to represent stations (which are collections of loaded trains ready to depart)? That is, what type of data structure will you use?

As mentioned above, queues will be the nessesary data structure for this.
Specifically, we need to keep track of our priortiy lists information. We 
will do this by seperating trains into 4 queues based on their priorty.
Trains with the same priority will follow the typical queue stanards and go in
the back of the list. The dispacther will only look at the first trains in the
4 queues and evlaute which train goes first based on the train logic.


6. How are you going to ensure that data structures in your program will not be modified concurrently?

We will wrap the queues in a mutex. The queues and the shared state mentioned 
will also be in a mutex. Both the train thread and dispacher must properly
lock and unlock the mutex to modify the information inside of it.



7. How many convars are you going to use?

we will use N+ 1 covars. So each covar for each train. This is so that we can
know which specific train is crossing the track. The condition will be:
The dispacther will sleep until a any train thread covar is reached.
This wakes the dispachter through a signal and it knows which train it came
from.

We will use the single mutex from Q3. The condition this convar represents is may_cross, which is shared state guarded by that mutex. A convar must be paired with the mutex that protects the data its condition reads — that's what makes "check the condition, then go to sleep.





Algorithim Sketch:
dispatch(

Main()

read,parse and decode input into id, direction, priorty, load time, cross time

inizitile the mutex dispatch_cond that has

4 empty queues, 
track_busy = false
last_direction = none
streal = 0
crossed =0

clock_gettime (start the time)

pthread_create and do the logic based on Q1 Answer

intiizlie dispatcher loop:

Wait until signal
select the train 
grant access based on train logic
wait until train in corssed
repeat 
